Created What's new in Mule article. Added to navigation. (#1350)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/whats-new-in-mule.adoc

= What's New in Mule 4.3
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Mule 4.3 incorporates several changes from earlier Mule 4.x versions. If you are migrating from a 4.x version to 4.3, ensure that you read each of the relevant topics in this article to make the necessary changes to your applications and also understand what has changed in the Mule runtime engine.

[[threading_model]]
== Threading Model
Mule 4.3 handles threads differently than Mule 4.2 and 4.1.

> In earlier versions, Mule owned and managed three different thread pools, each dedicated to each Processing Type (CPU_LIGHT, IO, CPU_INTENSIVE). Tasks were submitted to these pools using the Proactor design pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In earlier versions, Mule owned and managed three different thread pools, each dedicated to a different Processing Type (CPU_LIGHT, IO, CPU_INTENSIVE). Tasks were submitted to these pools using the Proactor design pattern.
```

Reviewer: pls verify

.Source
[source,weave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload map ((user) ->
   user update {
       case name at .name if(name == "Tomo") -> name ++ " (Christian)"
       case age at .age -> age + 1
   }
)
----

The JSON output shows that the string `" (Christian)"` is appended to the value `"Tomo"` and that the `"age"` values are incremented by `1`. Note that the values of the `"ID"` keys remain the same, as do the `"name"` key values that do not match `"Tomo"`.

.Output
[source,json,linenums]
----
[
 {
   "ID": 4128506,
   "name": "Ken",
   "age": 31
 },
 {
   "ID": 1823940,
   "name": "Tomo (Christian)",
   "age": 71
 },
 {
   "ID": 9086582,
   "name": "Kajika",
   "age": 11
 }
]
----

For complete documentation, see xref:dw-operators.adoc#update-operator[Update Operator].

=== Streaming Features and Enhancements

> * XML Streaming +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* XML Streaming: +
```

The DataWeave reader for the XML format now supports streaming. You need to specify the `collectionPath` and `streaming` reader properties to activate streaming.
+
When streaming, the XML parser can start processing content without having all the XML content, which is particularly helpful when dealing with large content.
+
See xref:dataweave-formats-xml.adoc[XML Format] for details.

> * Improved JSON Streaming +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improved JSON Streaming: +
```

> The JSON reader now supports streaming beyond arrays. The entire JSON document is now streamable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JSON reader now supports streaming the entire JSON document, instead of arrays only.
```

+
See xref:dataweave-formats-json.adoc[JSON Format] for details.

=== Literal Types

> This feature adds DataWeave support for literal types. A literal type is a type that represents exactly one value, which means, for example, that DataWeave can represent the `String` value `hello` with the type `hello`. Combined with union types, this feature enables DataWeave to represent an enumeration of literal values as a type, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature adds DataWeave support for literal types. A literal type is a type that represents exactly one value, which means, for example, that DataWeave can represent the `String` value `hello` with the type `hello`. Combined with `Union` types, this feature enables DataWeave to represent an enumeration of literal values as a type, for example:
```

Deprecations: +
The `entrySet`, `keySet`, `nameSet`, `valueSet` functions in the Objects module are deprecated in this release and replaced with the functions `entriesOf`, `keysOf`, `namesOf`, `valuesOf` in the Core module.

=== Custom MIME Types

This feature adds a way to define the output MIME type separately from the output data format. It also provides a simpler way of defining output and input formats:

[source,json,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output json
---
{
	Hello: “there”
}
----

For documentation, see xref:dataweave-formats.adoc#set_mime_types[Setting MIME Types].

=== Intersection Type

DataWeave introduces the `Intersection` type. This type intersects `Object` types. In this case, the intersection works as the concatenation (`++`) of object types.

The syntax for intersection type is:
----
TypeA & TypeB & ...
----

For documentation, see xref:dataweave-type-system.adoc[Type System]

=== Performance Improvements

DataWeave improves the performance of memory usage, functions (like `groupBy`), and the internal execution engine in this release.

* Elimination of common subexpressions: +

> Common subexpression elimination has been included to optimize scripts. Now, DataWeave will optimize the scripts by defining internal variables to represent subexpressions that are repeated, therefore replacing the repeated execution of that subexpression for only one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Common subexpression elimination is included to optimize scripts. Now, DataWeave optimizes scripts by defining internal variables to represent subexpressions that are repeated, which replaces the repeated executions of that subexpression with a single execution.
```
